All right so in this video I want to quickly talk about the different colored types that are commonly
used.
Now I'm not going to go over all of them but I'm going to go over the ones that you'll see for the most
part.
The most common types.
So let's create a file called 0 4 underscore colors dot HD here Mel and let's put our boiler plate in
here and we'll go ahead and change the title to colors.
Let's add in our style tags.
And as far as the body let's just put a couple headings
let's do an H to here
in an age three
and then up in the style I'm going to grab the H one as a selector and give it a color property which
is gonna be the color of the text.
Okay now as far as colors go anything I'm going to show you you can use for the color property you can
also use for it for the background color.
You can also use for a border anything.
And the first type is is a name so we can put like red in here.
So let's save this and let's run it with this life server.
So open that up and of course we have a red heading.
So this is a color name.
Now in addition to common colors like red blue green we have a bunch of not so common colors like for
instance coral.
We save that.
You can see we get coral and envious code.
If I just put any letter in like a G it's going to show us all the different options for the different
color names.
If I put in a C all these different colors of Aqua aquamarine a juror B all these beige blue violet
Burley would some really weird names but anyways these are color names.
So the second color type that we can use is in our G.B. value.
So for the H two let's say our G.B. and this takes in three things three values red green and blue.
And each value should be anywhere between 0 and 255.
So if I do zero that means that the value for Red is zero.
Let's do blue zero I'm sorry Green 0 and blue 0 and if I save that it's gonna be black because we have
no presence of red green or blue.
Now the highest you can go is 255.
So if I say 255 four for the first one here and then V.S. code it even gives us a little preview here
which is nice but if I save that we get red.
Okay.
Now if I wanted it slightly darker I could do like I don't know 2 10 and see now it's darker.
And let's say I wanted to do all blue.
I could go to the last one here 255 is the highest and it's it's Black is blue is it can get really
now there's a lot of different color combinations obviously you can be anything between 0 and 255 for
all of these.
So if I do like let's say one hundred of green and maybe I don't know 20 of red and save we get this
blue color.
Let's let's tone this down a bit.
We'll say like 120 and save and we get this color which is like a grayish blue and it gives you a little
preview right here.
So just remember that all zeros is black and then if you do all 250 fives take a crack at what that's
gonna give us if all zeros are black then it's all 250 fives are gonna be white as you can see and you
can't even read it because the background is white but as you can see it is there.
So that's red green blue are G.B..
Now the third type is the most common and the one that will be using the most and that's hexadecimal
or hex which is base sixteen number and it pertains to the composition of a certain color in the RG
B space.
So it's always going to start with a number sine and it's gonna be six or three characters that are
gonna be letters letters and or numbers for numbers it's gonna be it is either zero to nine or four
letters it'll be a two F so all zeros is gonna be black and then all F's is gonna be white.
Now just like RG b we have red green blue in hexadecimal we have read the first two green the second
two in blue the last two.
So if I wanted red I could do f f for red for the first 2 and then 0 0 green 0 0 blue.
And that gives me red OK if I want a blue I'd put F for the last two like that and if I did f f in just
the middle it would be green and then any combination of any of those.
So just like our G.B. it's gonna give us just a color based off of the values of red green and blue.
Now obviously you're not gonna remember all these different hex codes you may have some preferred colors
that you use often that you'll remember but there's there's plenty of Web sites and software that you
can use to to reference different colors and I'm going to give you an example in a minute but what you
do want to remember is obviously black which is all zeros.
Now when you have something that when you have hex value that's all the same you can actually cut it
down to three so three zeros as black and three Fs as white K you want to remember that and then anything
else that's going to be all the same like let's say three D or three C's it's gonna be a shade of gray
because all the red green and blue values are the same.
Same thing if we do like F for three times that's gonna be some shades of gray if we do e three that
will be a shade of gray as you can see it's very light.
So some common ones that I use are 3 3 3 which is almost black it's a really dark gray I think it's
cleaner than using jet black.
So I use it for a lot for backgrounds if I want to light background a lot of times I use f for like
that.
So those are just some of the ones that I keep in mind as far as color is like different blues or reds
and stuff.
I'll use a reference like this Web site here.
This is color dash hex dot com.
So we just have a palette here of different colors.
These are just the latest favorite colors but we can go up here we can use the color palette but if
I click one of these like let's say this blue right here let's say we're building an application or
Web site we like this blue by click on that it shows us the hexadecimal the RG b value and then other
color types as well that I didn't talk about like H S L HSV and you can use these and C Ss but I don't
I mean they're not that common.
Also what's cool about this site is if you go down you have a palette of different shades different
shades and tents that have to do with this.
This hexadecimal value because often you're going to want a color palette or a color scheme in your
web site or your application with colors that relate to each other so you might have you know buttons
that have this color and maybe your background has this color or something like that.
And then down here you can see the percentages of our G.B..
So this this gives you a lot of information on different colors.
Gives you examples and CSX.
So really really helpful side I would definitely bookmark this site.
Another good one is each team l color codes dot com.
And this one here you can see we have a color palette.
We can just kind of slide and it gives us the hex value the RG G.B. the H has cell.
So this is a pretty cool site as well.
Down here we have a color chart we can click and it shows us in the header the different values.
All right.
So you'll learn more as we go along.
But I just wanted you to understand these these three different types of colors that we can use in CSX
and of course you can use color names.
I prefer hacks like if I have to make something white or black I'll use the hex value a lot of people
have asked me why why don't I just use white or or black but I like to be consistent.
I don't like to just.
I don't like to have color names mixed with hex values it's just kind of just it's just my thing.
But you can do it any way you want.
So just just keep that in mind.
Everyone's different.
Everyone does things differently.
All right guys so that's it for this one and I'll see you in the next video.